### Option 1: Standalone App Installation and Usage
1. (Optional) Download the .mat files used in the demo from https://uofr-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/personal/yzhao38_ur_rochester_edu/Documents/sleep_scoring_project?csf=1&web=1&e=Ex7jBK.
2. Double click the sleep scoring app v0.5.exe to open the app, which will open a page in your web browser.
3. CLick "Generate prediction" if you want to generate sleep score predictions on the data.mat or choose "Visualize existing prediction" if you want to visualize the predictions.
4. Click Select Files. If you chose "Generate prediction", then use the file finder that should pop up now to select the data (the .mat file generated by preprocess_sleep_data.m), the output is a .mat file that has the default name of the name of the data file plus a "_prediction" added. If you chose "Visualize existing prediction", then select the prediction .mat file.
5. You can add your annotations by selecting the Box Select tool. Once selected an area, you can update the sleep scores by pressing 0, 1, or 2 on the keyboard. After you are done annotating the sleep scores, click the "Save Annotations" button located towards the buttom. Your annotations will be saved in the same prediction file.

### Option 2: Running the sleep scoring app via Anaconda environment
Running the app this way allows you to use the most up to date dependencies used by the app under the hood, which can make the app more smooth and faster. The packaged version of the app run on an older versioin of some core dependencies because the packaging tool has conflicts with the newer version. You can also get updated versions of the app quicker, if there are any. But to do this, there's a bit of more work that you need to do for once. But it's all free to use.

#### Preparation
There are three preparation processes that you need to do beforing using the app with Anaconda.

1. Install Miniconda, a minimal install of Anaconda. Follow the instrcutions here: https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/miniconda-install.html

2. Sign up for a GitHub account if you haven't. This is needed because, our sleep scoring app repository hosted on GitHub is a private repo because a model the app uses is not yet published. And as a private repo, you must have a GitHub account that you can share with me. Once I add you as a collaborator, you can download it and get updates from it. Follow the instructions here to sign up: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github/signing-up-for-a-new-github-account. After you sign up, please send me your GitHub account name and I will add you to our private repo.

3. Get Git if you haven't. You need it to download the repo and getting updates. Follow the instructions here: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

#### Set up the environment
After you have done the prep work above, open you anaconda terminal or anaconda power shell prompt, and then replicate the conda environment we use to develop the app by typing
```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
You only need to do this **once**, but it is important that you do this step successfully to ensure a smooth run of the app.

#### Activate  the environment
Next, activate the enviroment called sleep_scoring_dist, by typing
```bash
conda activate sleep_scoring_dist
```
In the future before you run the app, you need to activate this environment.

#### download the source code for the app
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yzhaoinuw/sleep_scoring.git
```
At whatever directory you run this command will download the source code there. Of course, you can place the source code folder anywhere you like afterwards. Then, use the command *cd*, which stands for change directory, in your command line to change to where you place the sleep_scoring folder. 

#### Run the app
Last step, type
```bash
python app.py
```
to run the app.

#### Update the app
When there's an update announced, it's starightforward to get the update from source. Have the environment activated, cd to the source code folder, then type
```bash
git pull origin dev
```
